---
author: Dipankar Das
---

if the ingress rules dont match with the URL provided then traffic is redirected to the default backend and you have t oconfig it to work

# What is the rewrite-target option?
Different ingress controllers have different options that can be used to customise the way it works. NGINX Ingress controller has many options that can be seen here. I would like to explain one such option that we will use in our labs. The Rewrite target option.

 

Our watch app displays the video streaming webpage at http://<watch-service>:<port>/

Our wear app displays the apparel webpage at http://<wear-service>:<port>/

We must configure Ingress to achieve the below. When user visits the URL on the left, his request should be forwarded internally to the URL on the right. Note that the /watch and /wear URL path are what we configure on the ingress controller so we can forwarded users to the appropriate application in the backend. The applications don’t have this URL/Path configured on them:

 

`http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/watch –> http://<watch-service>:<port>/`

`http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/wear –> http://<wear-service>:<port>/`

 

Without the rewrite-target option, this is what would happen:

`http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/watch –> http://<watch-service>:<port>/watch`

`http://<ingress-service>:<ingress-port>/wear –> http://<wear-service>:<port>/wear`

 

Notice watch and wear at the end of the target URLs. The target applications are not configured with /watch or /wear paths. They are different applications built specifically for their purpose, so they don’t expect /watch or /wear in the URLs. And as such the requests would fail and throw a 404 not found error.

 

To fix that we want to “ReWrite” the URL when the request is passed on to the watch or wear applications. We don’t want to pass in the same path that user typed in. So we specify the rewrite-target option. This rewrites the URL by replacing whatever is under `rules->http->paths->path` which happens to be /pay in this case with the value in rewrite-target. This works just like a search and replace function.

`For example: replace(path, rewrite-target)`

`In our case: replace("/path","/")`

 
```yaml
# make sure the manifest is correct
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: test-ingress
  namespace: critical-space
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
spec:
  rules:
  - http:
      paths:
      - path: /pay
        backend:
          serviceName: pay-service
          servicePort: 8282
```

In another example given here, this could also be:

`replace("/something(/|$)(.*)", "/$2")`

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /$2
  name: rewrite
  namespace: default
spec:
  rules:
  - host: rewrite.bar.com
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: http-svc
          servicePort: 80
        path: /something(/|$)(.*)
```

# volume driver plugin in docker
storage driver help manage the storage of images and container
volume are not handled by storage drivers, it is handled by volume driver plugin
DEFAULT_VOLUME_DRIVER_PLUGIN = Local

 the host path is not recommended approach for > 1 nodes as each node will have different contents in them in same folder

# PVC & PV

once the Persistent volume clams are created k8s binds the persistenv volumes to claims w.r.t. to requests annd properties set on the volume
      binds
1 PVC <---> 1PV

point to check for binding the PVC
- sufficuent capacity
- access mode
- volume modes
- storage class

if multiple PV for a PVC we can use labels and selector to bind

after a PVC gets attached to PV then the PV cannnot be used by other PVC so another PVC will be in `Pending` State this happens when no other PV is available

when the PVC is deleted
bydefault the PV is `Retain`

```yaml
persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
```
It is not available for any other claims

OR
`Delete`
deleted automatically without the need for admin to delete the pv

OR
`Recycle`
the PV is made available after the prev. data is scrubbed

## demo
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: myfrontend
      image: nginx
      volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: "/var/www/html"
        name: mypd
  volumes:
    - name: mypd
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: myclaim
```
> **Note** you cannot simplly delete the PVC if its being used by pod it will remain in `Pending`State

# Storage Class

when creating a pv we have tofirst create the disk for the pv then bind the pv to that (Static binding)

when using the storage class the need of creating the pv as it automaticall ycrates the disk by the specific provider and binds the pvc to it for storage
and thus it automates the provisioning of the stroage class

```yaml
---
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
kind: StorageClass
metadata:
  name: delayed-volume-sc
provisioner: kubernetes.io/no-provisioner
volumeBindingMode: WaitForFirstConsumer
```

the statefulset automatically assigns the subdomain and hostname
if we were to use the sub-domain and hostname in deployment then the same dns record for each pod created thus making the dns errors


