---
author: Dipankar Das
---

the streams(similar to triggers in RDBMS) is a feature in Dynamo DB

what is ledger
use case:
systemc requiremeent
- ummutable
- cryptograpically verifiable

when the database is written it is not modified byother and not just verifiable but through cryptographically


# Serverless IT automation
Probably the simplest way you can try serverless is by replacing a cron job with a scheduled AWS Lambda function.

You can use Amazon CloudWatch Events or Amazon EventBridge to trigger your Lambda function at a scheduled time or at a recurring interval. This means running routine jobs without any server overhead.

Another very useful pattern is orchestrating a set of routine, event-based tasks with AWS Step Functions and Lambda.

One example of this is a web-based user uploading an image to a website. When an image is uploaded to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), that triggers a Lambda function that kicks off a Step Functions workflow.

The Step Functions flow includes Lambda functions as tasks to extract metadata from the image, generate an image thumbnail, and store the metadata and tags to an Amazon DynamoDB database. When the user refreshes their webpage, they see the metadata, the thumbnail, and the tags associated with their image.

Another powerful IT automation pattern is to use Lambda to prevent unwanted configuration changes. For example, you might implement an AWS Config rule that no security groups should allow remote desktop access via the public route. In this pattern, a CloudWatch event is fired off whenever someone modifies a security group.

The CloudWatch event triggers a Lambda function that has custom code to review a list of what security group rules are allowed or denied. If the update is not allowed, the function deletes the rule and uses Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) to send an email alert.

You could also use EventBridge to route the alerts to a different AWS account.

# why DynamoDB Streams to be used to connect AWS ElasticSearch service with the help of aws lambda
application search engine
and for analysitics

The pattern that opened the event-driven architecture module forms the basic backbone of a serverless web application architecture.

API Gateway handles HTTP requests, AWS Lambda provides the application layer, and Amazon DynamoDB provides database functionality. As discussed, you’d want to incorporate asynchronous connections wherever possible. For access via a web application, you’d also need to incorporate authentication.

You can use Amazon Cognito for sign-up and sign-in functionality. Amazon Cognito also provides federation, so mobile users can use their existing social identities from other sites. You’ll find a link beneath this video to a re:Invent talk that provides a bit more detail about using Amazon Cognito for web applications.

Add an S3 bucket to host static assets for the website and an Amazon CloudFront distribution to serve assets to geographically dispersed consumers.

You can adapt this architecture for single-page web applications by making use of S3 object versioning, CloudFront cache expiration, and fine-tuned content time to live settings. For mobile applications, users expect real-time data and a feature-rich user experience.

They also expect their data to be available when they’re offline or using a low-speed connection, and they expect data to be synchronized across devices. You have the added challenge that with a microservice-based architecture, it takes multiple connections to retrieve distributed data vs. the single connection you might use in a more traditional backend.

And, you need to support a combination of transactional and query data. This kind of chatty application suggests GraphQL using AWS AppSync. AWS AppSync provides one endpoint to the mobile application, but then spans out to interact with lots of backend services.

It also provides two-way communication between the client and the backend. Amazon Cognito provides user management and acts as an identity provider for the mobile application. It allows users to leverage existing social identities to sign in.

Amazon S3 still provides static content such as user profile images and serves requests via CloudFront. But in the mobile application, users interact with the backend through GraphQL operations against AWS AppSync and AWS service APIs.

AWS AppSync manages GraphQL HTTP requests and responses.

DynamoDB is used for the persistent store and DynamoDB Streams indexes relevant data to Amazon Elasticsearch Service through a Lambda function.

You can use Amazon Elasticsearch Service for both the application search engine and for analytics.

Amazon Pinpoint captures analytics data from the clients and also sends targeted texts or email based on user data.

You can see how this pattern combines parts of the event-driven patterns we looked at earlier with additional AWS services to address the specific needs of the data access patterns.

# Example: Web application

In this example, you will see a demo architecture for a serverless web application. You can add Amazon Cognito for authentication and add Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) and Amazon CloudFront to quickly serve up static content from anywhere. To learn more, choose each numbered hotspot:


# Example: Mobile backend

Similar to the web application example, in this example you will see a demo architecture for a serverless mobile backend. For mobile applications, users expect real-time data and a feature-rich user experience. Users also expect their data to be available when they’re offline or using a low-speed connection, and they expect data to be synchronized across devices. You have the added challenge that, with a microservice-based architecture, it takes multiple connections to retrieve distributed data vs. a single connection, which you might use in a more traditional backend. You also need to support a combination of transactional and query data. To learn more, choose each numbered hotspot:

# Here are key best practices:

- Don’t reinvent the wheel.
Use managed services when possible and use the AWS Serverless Application Repository and Serverless Patterns Collection.



- Don’t just port your code. 
You can easily copy code from other applications and run it in Lambda. But if you don’t apply event-driven thinking, you’re going to miss out on some of the benefits. It’s OK to start here, but revisit and iterate.

- Stay current.
Services and available serverless applications evolve quickly. There might be an easier way to do something.

- Prefer idempotent, stateless functions.
When you can’t, use Step Functions where you need stateful control (retries, long-running).

- Keep events inside AWS services for as long as possible.
Let AWS services talk directly to each other whenever possible rather than writing code to do it.

- Verify the limits of all of the services involved.
You can use AWS Service Quotas console to view and request increases for most AWS quotas.
