# Failure management in event-driven arch.

Any conversation about failure management on AWS starts with Amazon CloudWatch and Amazon CloudWatch Logs. Managed services provide CloudWatch metrics out of the box.

Take advantage of these for monitoring and alarming as you iterate and tweak your serverless architectures to meet your workload’s characteristics. There is a link to the default metrics for each of the services discussed in this course beneath this video.

Within your functions, leverage the Lambda Logging Library for your chosen runtime to write errors to CloudWatch Logs, which can then be captured as custom metrics. Any output that you send to standard out is captured by CloudWatch Logs and aggregated.

Retries

The type and amount of error handling you must write into your code depends on the event sources and services you use. In most cases, you’re going to need to handle a bit of retry and backoff logic, and you definitely want to leverage the options available in the AWS SDK.

The AWS SDK provides backoff and retry mechanisms by default that are usually sufficient when you are writing Lambda functions that integrate with other AWS services.

When you generate the SDK for an API stage in API Gateway, the generated SDK has backoff and retry mechanisms built in. This makes it easier for anyone to build an application that uses your API.


--------------------------------

When you invoke a function, two types of errors can occur: function errors and invocation errors. You get a function error if Lambda successfully hands off an event to your function, but the function throws an error or times out before completing.

You get an invocation error if the request is rejected before your function receives it. For example, an oversized payload or lack of permissions will cause an invocation error. You also get an invocation error if the function is getting throttled.

In a synchronous invocation, like between API Gateway and Lambda, no retries are built in. You have to write code to handle errors and retries for all error types.  

With asynchronous event sources, like Amazon S3, Lambda provides built-in retry behaviors. 

When Lambda gets an asynchronous event, it handles it a lot like the SQS example we reviewed earlier. The Lambda service returns a success to the event source and puts the request in its own internal queue. Then it sends invocation requests from its queue to your function. 

If the invocation request returns invocation errors, Lambda retries that request two more times by default. You can configure this retry value between 0 and 2. 

If the invocation request returns invocation errors, Lambda retries that invocation for up to 6 hours. You can decrease the default duration using the maximum age of event setting. 

To handle events that continue to fail beyond the retry or maximum age settings, you can configure a dead-letter queue on the Lambda function. 

Alternatively, you can set a failed-event destination. We’ll talk more about failed-event destinations a bit later.

-----------------------------

Stream-based event sources (like Kinesis Data Streams or DynamoDB Streams) need to maintain record order per shard. So, by default, if an error occurs while Lambda is processing a batch of records, Lambda won’t process any new records from that shard until the batch succeeds or expires.  You can use the Iterator-Age metric to detect blocked shards.  

Prior to December 2019, if you wanted to bypass stream failures, you needed to write code into your function to return a success back to the stream after some number of attempts, and then write the error record to something like Amazon SQS queue or CloudWatch Logs for offline analysis. 

A better way to manage failures is to modify the default behaviors using four configuration options introduced in 2019:

- Bisect batch on function error
- Maximum retry attempts
- Maximum record age
- On-failure destination

**Bisect batch on function error** tells Lambda to split a failing batch into two and retry each batch separately.

**Maximum retry attempts** and **maximum record age** let you limit the number or duration of retries on a failed batch.

And **on-failure destination** lets you send failed records to an SNS topic or SQS queue to be handled offline without having to add additional logic into your function.

Here’s an illustration of how these options work together. In this example, **BisectOnFunctionError** = True, **MaximumRetryAttempts** = 2, and **DestinationConfig** includes an **OnFailure Destination** that points to an SNS topic.

Assume you have a batch of 10 records, and the third record in this batch of 10 returns a function error. When the function returns an error, Lambda splits the batch into two, and then sends those to your function separately, still maintaining record order. Lambda also resets the retry and max age values whenever it splits a batch.

Now you’ve got two batches of five. Lambda sends the first batch of five and it fails. So the splitting process repeats. Lambda splits that failing batch yielding a batch of two and a batch of three records. Lambda resets the retry and max age values, and sends the first of those two batches for processing.

This time, the batch of two records processes successfully. So Lambda sends the batch of three to the function. That batch fails. Lambda splits it, and now it has a batch with one record (the bad one) and another with two records.

Lambda sends the batch with a bad record and it fails, but there’s nothing left to split.

So now the max retry and max age settings come into play. In this example, the function retries the record twice, and when it continues to fail, sends it to the SNS topic configured for the on-failure destination.

With the erroring record out of the way, Lambda works its way back through each of the smaller batches it created, always maintaining record order.

So Lambda is going to process the unprocessed batch of two, then the unprocessed batch of five. At that point, the original batch of 10 is marked as successful, and Lambda moves the pointer on the stream to the start of the next batch of records.

These options provide flexible error handling, but they also introduce the potential for a record to be processed multiple times. In the example, the first two records are processed before the function returns an error. Then they’re processed a second time in the smaller batch of five records, which also fails, and then they are processed a third time in their own batch.

This means you have to handle idempotency in your function rather than assuming only-once record processing.

-------------------------

For both asynchronous and streaming event sources, you can specify an on-failure destination for a Lambda function. For asynchronous sources, you have the option of an SNS topic, SQS queue, EventBridge event bus, or another Lambda function. For streaming event sources, you can specify an SNS topic or an SQS queue.

The previous video gave an example of using an on-failure destination on a stream. Let’s go back to the order submission example to illustrate where you might use an on-failure destination with an asynchronous event.

The SendOrder Step Functions task kicks off the SNS fulfillment topic, whose subscribers handle additional fulfillment requirements. Let’s say that one of the subscribers is a Lambda function that decides if the order qualifies for a promotional gift. If it does, the function initiates steps to send the gift from a third-party system.

To handle potential failures caused by the third-party system, set the function’s on-failure destination equal to the ARN of an SNS topic that notifies the team responsible for fulfillment.

There are a couple of advantages to using an on-failure destination rather than using a dead-letter queue. First, the invocation record that is sent to the on-failure destination contains more data than the event object available to a dead-letter queue.

Second, it provides more flexibility to change or modify the failure behaviors. A dead-letter queue is part of a function’s version-specific configuration.  

You can also set on-success destinations to route successfully processed events without modifying your Lambda function code.

-------------------------

For polling event sources that aren’t stream based, for example Amazon SQS, if an invocation fails or times out, the message is available again when the visibility timeout period expires.

Lambda keeps retrying that message until it is either successful or the queue’s Maxreceivecount limit has been exceeded.

As noted earlier, it’s a best practice to set up a dead-letter queue on the source queue to process the failed messages.

When you’re building serverless applications, you need to execute performance tests, and adjust retries and timeouts to find the optimal combination that allows your processes to complete but doesn’t create bottlenecks that can cascade throughout the system.

Let’s go back to the connection between an Amazon SQS queue and Lambda as an example of how you manage timeouts across services.

You can set a timeout on your Lambda functions, and you can set the visibility timeout on SQS queues.

You can also set the batch size for the queue from 1 to 10 messages per batch, which can impact both your function timeout and your visibility timeout configurations.

You choose your Lambda timeout to allow the function to complete successfully under most circumstances.

You also want to consider at what point to give up on individual invocation to avoid additional costs or prevent a bottleneck.

A larger batch size can reduce polling costs and improve efficiency for fast workloads. But for longer running functions, you might need a lower batch size so that everything in the batch is processed before the function timeout expires.

For example, a batch size of 10 would require fewer polling processes and fewer invocations than a batch size of 3.

If your function typically can process a message in 2 seconds, then a batch size of 10 would typically process in 20 seconds, and you might use a function timeout of 30 seconds. But if your function takes 2 minutes to process each message, then it would take 20 minutes to process a batch of 10.

However, the maximum timeout for Lambda is 15 minutes, so that batch would fail without processing all of its messages, and any messages in that batch that weren’t deleted by your function would again be visible on the queue. Which brings us back to the visibility timeout setting on the queue.

You need to configure the visibility timeout to allow enough time for your Lambda function to complete a message batch. So if we stick with the example of a batch size of 10 and a Lambda function that takes 20 seconds to process the batch, you need a visibility timeout that is greater than 20 seconds.

You also need to leave some buffer in the visibility timeout to account for Lambda invocation retries when the function is getting throttled. You don’t want your visibility timeout to expire before those messages can be processed. The best practice is to set your visibility timeout to 6 times the timeout you configure for your function.

You’ll find a summary table beneath the video, as well as links to the developer guide pages for each service’s relevant timeout features.

-----------------------------

# Error handling summary by execution model
The type and amount of error handling you must write into your code depends on the execution model of the event source you choose and how Lambda handles retries and timeouts for you. To learn more, expand each of the following four categories.

## API Gateway (synchronous event source)

- Timeout considerations – API Gateway has a 30-second timeout. If the Lambda function hasn't responded to the request within 30 seconds, an error is returned.
- Retries – There are no built-in retries if a function fails to execute successfully.
- Error handling – Generate the SDK from the API stage, and use the backoff and retry mechanisms it provides.

## Amazon SNS (asynchronous event source)

- Timeout considerations – Asynchronous event sources do not wait for a response from the function's execution. Requests are handed off to Lambda, where they are queued and invoked by Lambda.
- Retries – Asynchronous event sources have built-in retries. If a failure is returned from a function's execution, Lambda will attempt that invocation two more times for a total of three attempts to execute the function with its event payload. You can use the **Retry Attempts** configuration to set the retries to 0 or 1 instead.

If Lambda is unable to invoke the function (for example, if there is not enough concurrency available and requests are getting throttled), Lambda will continue to try to run the function again for up to 6 hours by default. You can modify this duration with **Maximum Event Age**.

Amazon SNS has unique retry behaviors among asynchronous events based on its [delivery policy for AWS Lambda](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-message-delivery-retries.html). It will perform 3 immediate tries, 2 at 1 second apart, 10 backing off from 1 second to 20 seconds, and 100,000 at 20 seconds apart.

- Error handling – Use the [Lambda destinations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-features.html#gettingstarted-features-destinations) OnFailure option to send failures to another destination for processing. Alternatively, move failed messages to a dead-letter queue on the function. When Amazon SNS is the event source, you also have the option to configure a [dead-letter queue on the SNS subscription](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-dead-letter-queues.html).

## Kinesis Data Streams (polling a stream as an event source)

- Timeout considerations – When the retention period for a record expires, the record is no longer available to any consumer. The retention period is 24 hours by default. You can increase the retention period at a cost.

As an event source for Lambda, you can configure **Maximum Record Age** to tell Lambda to skip processing a data record when it has reached its Maximum Record Age.

- Retries – By default, Lambda retries a failing batch until the retention period for a record expires. You can configure **Maximum Retry Attempts** so that your Lambda function will skip retrying a batch of records when it has reached the Maximum Retry Attempts (or it has reached the Maximum Record Age).
- Error handling – Configure an OnFailure destination on your Lambda function so that when a data record reaches the Maximum Retry Attempts or Maximum Record Age, you can send its metadata, such as shard ID and stream Amazon Resource Name (ARN), to an SQS queue or SNS topic for further investigation.

Use **BisectBatchOnFunctionError** to tell Lambda to split a failed batch into two batches. Retry your function invocation with smaller batches to isolate bad records and work around timeout and retry issues.

For more information on these error handling features, see the blog post [AWS Lambda Supports Failure-Handling Features for Kinesis and DynamoDB Event Sources](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2019/11/aws-lambda-supports-failure-handling-features-for-kinesis-and-dynamodb-event-sources/).

## SQS queue (polling a queue as an event source)

- Timeout considerations – When the visibility timeout expires, messages become visible to other consumers on the queue. Set your visibility timeout to 6 times the timeout you configure for your function.
- Retries – Use the maxReceiveCount on the queue's policy to limit the number of times Lambda will retry to process a failed execution.
- Error handling – Write your functions to delete each message as it is successfully processed. Move failed messages to a dead-letter queue configured on the source SQS queue.


https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/retries-on-errors.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invocation-async.html#invocation-async-errors
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/handle-errors-in-lambda-integration.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/limits.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-message-delivery-retries.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/with-kinesis.html#services-kinesis-errors
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/streams/latest/dev/kinesis-extended-retention.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-visibility-timeout.html

# additional res
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/monitoring-functions-metrics.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/api-gateway-metrics-and-dimensions.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-monitoring-using-cloudwatch.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/streams/latest/dev/monitoring-with-cloudwatch.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-available-cloudwatch-metrics.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/procedure-cw-metrics.html

# Failure management across your application

This section focuses on ways that these four AWS services can provide failure management across your application:

- AWS Step Functions
- Amazon SQS
- Amazon SNS
- AWS X-Ray

> **Info**
> As a best practice, ensure that production code can handle AWS Lambda service exceptions (Lambda.ServiceException and Lambda.SdkclientException). Any tasks that invoke a Lambda function should handle Lambda service exceptions. You’ll find these examples and additional details in the Error Handling section of the AWS Step Functions Developer Guide.


Let’s look at an example in the context of our order processing architecture. On the happy path, the Lambda function writes the execution ARN and the WebSocket URL to the database and provides the WebSocket URL to the client. Next, the client connects via the WebSocket API, and the connection ID is written to the DynamoDB table. Then the notification task in the Step Functions workflow gets the WebSocket information from the DynamoDB table and uses it to communicate results to the client.

## additional res

- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-dead-letter-queues.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/sns-dead-letter-queues.html
- https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invocation-async.html#invocation-dlq



