# ASyncronous (event driven)
## SQS
Amazon SQS supports both standard and First-In-First-Out (FIFO) queues, but currently only standard queues can be used as Lambda event sources. 

Standard queues provide much higher throughput, but order is not guaranteed. Also, messages may be delivered more than once, so you need to write idempotent functions that can process the same message multiple times without unexpected results.

## Step function
With Step Functions, you can orchestrate different types of backend processes based on the work you need to do.

If your task is less than 15 minutes, you can use Lambda. But if it’s longer, you could use AWS Batch or AWS Fargate as the task for a step.

Instead of having your Lambda function wait a specific amount of time for a resource to become available, use wait states in Step Functions. If you have a Lambda function waiting, you incur charges and waste resources.

With a wait state in Step Functions, you don’t incur any further cost because Step Functions cost is based on transitions between states and not on time spent within a state.

Callback tasks let you pause the workflow indefinitely until a task token is returned.

For some integrated services (including Lambda), Step Functions lets you pass a task token to the service and then pause that task until you get the token back via a `SendTaskSuccess` or a `SendTaskFailure` call. You might use this feature to manage the integration with the payment processing system in our example.

Step Functions also includes an increasing number of direct service integrations, which further reduces the orchestration logic you have to write when integrating with those services.


> **Info**
> A common use case for Step Functions is tasks that requires human intervention, such as a manual approval process in a workflow. To implement this, you can use the callback integration pattern with the enterprise messaging patterns to call a service with a task token. Step Functions will wait until that task token is returned with a payload before progressing with the workflow.



# 3 patterns for communicating status updates

In an architecture in the previous lesson, the client service submitted an order, and the SQS queue gave a response to API Gateway with the message ID. Then Lambda pulled the message from the queue and handed it off to Step Functions to complete the order process and update the job status as it moved through the workflow.

The next thing you need to consider is how to provide the status to the calling client. The method you choose depends on your use case. The next set of videos looks at three potential approaches:

- Client polling
- Webhooks with Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)
- WebSockets with AWS AppSync

## Client polling
Advantages
- Convenient to replace a synchronous flow

Disadvantages
- Adds additional latency to the consistency of the data to the client
- Unnecessary work and increased cost for requests and responses when nothing has changed

## Webhook pattern with Amazon SNS

Another way to improve on the polling approach is to use webhooks. Webhooks are user-defined HTTP callbacks. To learn more, choose the play button.

## WebSockets pattern with AWS AppSync

The last option you can use is WebSockets with AWS AppSync. WebSocket APIs are an open standard used to create a persistent connection between the client and the backing service, permitting bidirectional communication. You can provide the status for the client using WebSockets with GraphQL subscriptions to listen for updates through AWS AppSync. To learn more, choose the play button.

# Resources

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/with-sqs.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-quotas.html
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/aws-lambda-adds-amazon-simple-queue-service-to-supported-event-sources/
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2019/11/aws-lambda-supports-amazon-sqs-fifo-event-source/
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-aws-step-functions-express-workflows-high-performance-low-cost/
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/concepts-standard-vs-express.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/welcome.html
https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/create-a-serverless-workflow-step-functions-lambda/
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/welcome.html
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appsync/latest/devguide/what-is-appsync.html


