# monitoring and troubleshooting

graph types
- Number of requests
- Invocation duration per request
- Number of requests that result in an error

### aws cloudwatch
provides built-in metrics to help monitor your Lambda functions. 
- invocations
The number of times your function code is run, including successful runs and runs that result in a function error. If the invocation request is throttled or otherwise resulted in an invocation error, invocations aren't recorded.
- Duration
The amount of time that your function code spends processing an event. The billed duration for an invocation is the value of Duration rounded up to the nearest millisecond.
- Errors
The number of invocations that result in a function error. Function errors include exceptions thrown by your code and exceptions thrown by the Lambda runtime. The runtime returns errors for issues such as timeouts and configuration errors.
- throttles
The number of times that a process failed because of concurrency limits. When all function instances are processing requests and no concurrency is available to scale up, Lambda rejects additional requests.
- iteratorAge
Pertains to event source mappings that read from streams. The age of the last record in the event. The age is the amount of time between when the stream receives the record and when the event source mapping sends the event to the function.
- deadlettererrors
For asynchronous invocation, this is the number of times Lambda attempts to send an event to a dead-letter queue but fails.
- concurrentExec
The number of function instances that are processing events.
You can also view metrics for the following:

  - UnreservedConncurrentExections – The number of events that are being processed by functions that don't have reserved concurrency. 
  - ProvisionedConcurrentExecutions – The number of function instances that are processing events on provisioned concurrency. For each invocation of an alias or version with provisioned concurrency, Lambda emits the current count.


